An end to end solution for solving word jumbles. 
 *see the images directory for examples of word jumbles.*

A whitepaper describing the algorithmic approach to solving the word jumbles can be found at paper/finalpaper.pdf

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "data" directory contains particle data and various other data used in my report.

The "solved_reports" directory holds examples of the output of the -solve command (detailed below) for each image.

The "dict" directory holds the dictionary file.

The "code" directory holds the code.
* The "imagej" directory holds the macro used for particle analysis and other utility macros.
* The "pycode" directory holds the code used for cropping and solution finding of the word jumbles.

The "images" directory contains all images used and produced by the algorithm.
* The "ogImages" directory contains the images as taken from google, wheras the images in "images" have been binarized if needed.

The "unjumble.py" file is used to solve word jumbles located in the "images" folder.
	
To perform the cropping portion of the algorithm:
* 'python3 unjumble.py -crop **img**'

* Where **img** is the complete name of a binary PNG of a word jumble located in the "images" folder. (ex. j1.png).

* This command yields a cropped verion of the file saved under "**imgName**_cropped.png" in the "images" folder.
* This command also outputs the delta to be used in the calculation of a_T when performing particle analysis.

To perform the particle analysis portion of the algorithm:
* There is no easy way to integrate python with packages into an imageJ macro, so sadly this portion of the algorithm takes place using a seperate imageJ macro. The macro for particle analysis can be found at "code/imagej/count.ijm".
* This portion of the algorithm generates an .xls file in the "data/particle_data" folder that is used to create an anser template for the jumble.

* I have provided the data files (generated by the macro) because the output of the file is dependant on how you have imageJ set up.  Obviously my code depends on the structure of the data file, so its easier to do it like this.  You can still run the macro and set the particles detected.

To see the character strings extracted from an image:
* 'python3 unjumble.py -ocr **img**'

* Where **img** is the complete name of a binary PNG of a word jumble located in the "images" folder.
* This command yields a new image for each clue string in the jumble, and outputs the clue strings to STDOUT.
* Images saved under "jx_cropped_imgx.png"

To perform the solving phase (includes ocr and template determination):
* 'python3 unjumble.py -solve **img**'

* Where **img** is the complete name of a binary PNG of a word jumble located in the "images" folder. 
* This command will walk through the solve procedure on STDOUT.  An attempt to deduce then brutce force solve the final anagram is made.
* For word jumbles with long (12+) character solutions, the solver takes hours. 
* All examples provided except j2.png and j6.png can be completed in under 1 minute.

Pre-saved outputs for the solve command for all files are saved in the "solver_reports" directory.
